 Princess Vicky Haastrup  The Executive Vice Chairman, ENL Consortium and Chairman, Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN), Princess Vicky Haastrup, made this call as she took over the mantle of leadership of Nigeria’s foremost maritime institution, the Certified Institute of Shipping. Nigeria (CISN) as the fourth President of the institute. In her acceptance speech during her investiture ceremony in Lagos, Haastrup also called for passage of the Port and Harbours Bill (a proposal for a new law) by the National Assembly. Haastrup emphasised that in order to re-engineer the maritime sector, government should provide an enabling environment through monetary and fiscal policies for trade growth and economic sustainability. “The maritime industry should be overhauled in the areas of maritime policies, institutional, regulatory and legal framework. This is because our policy framework is outdated and incoherent. The Nigerian Ports Authority Act is 29 years old. New laws are urgently required. The National Assembly should pass the Ports and Harbours Bill currently before it. “Government should do constant dredging of the channels in order to maintain a given draught. The dilapidated port access roads should be fixed while inter-modal transportation should be enhanced. The laying of channel buoys, the procurement of additional harbour crafts, the establishment of new signal stations and anchorages aimed at ensuring safety of navigation, protection of maritime environment and enhancement of maritime safety should be undertaken by the government to bring down the cost of doing business,” she said. Haastrup, who is the first female President of CISN, while congratulating the institute on its drive for maritime manpower development said: “As a maritime academy, I wish to call for the inclusion of the following shipping academic related courses/programmed into the curriculum of the institute by the Board of Studies; Standard of Training, Certification and Watch Keeping (STCW) and other IMO courses, Certificate of Competencies (CoC) for seamen, general courses in shipping management, port operation, freight forwarding to address maritime logistics and supply chain management issues.” The immediate past President of CISN, Prof. Isaac Adalemo, urged the new leadership to remain focused on the primary objectives of the institute which he said was set up to fill the yawning gap in professional training and development of its members. Represented by Rector of CIS, Alex Okwuashi, Adelemo, said CISN has established an innovative Enterprise Institution under its College of Maritime Transport Management and Technology to award Diplomas to students.He said the Federal Ministry of Education, among other accrediting institutions, has accredited the Diploma programmes of the College. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .