Dr. john Alabi The Kogi Coalition of Business and professional Associations (KOCOBPA) in collaboration with the Centre for International Private Enterprise (CIPE) have presented a policy brief to Kogi State Government, on how to overcome stunted business growth in the State. The group, which is a vibrant and premier coalition of the business and professional organisations, is dedicated to economic and social development of the State through the development of business agenda. The Chairman of the Coalition Dr. john Alabi, while briefing newsmen said though the State is endowed with enormous opportunities there are daunting challenges hindering economic development. He said: “As a reaction to the challenges the KOCOBPA in partnership with CIPE carried out a survey where five priority issues affecting business in the State were identified. “The initiative was conceived to drive grassroots advocacy and promote policy reforms through the development of a business agenda which will serve as a tool by which business and professional associations can interact and consult with Government and other stakeholders.” The document, which he indicated had been presented to the Government has five identified thematic areas, which include. “Procedural difficulties in accessing necessary credit to finance business operations; lack of business incubation centre in the State, infrastructure deficit, poor environmental sanitation and waste management as well as the insecurity of lives and properties.” He called for the collaboration of media practitioners to make the issues part of the agenda they set, so that these five setback on business growth can be infused into the next budget. He explained that when Government is able to make provision for each of the five areas it would go a long way to changing the tide and investors would be encouraged to come into the State to invest. According to him, in the area of access to credit the study confirmed that most business owners were found to be ignorant of the possibilities and processes to access bank credit facilities in commercial banks. He said business owners lack land titles because Government failed to issue Certificates of Occupany (C of O) to property owners since the State was created over 25 years ago. The chairman advised Government to Start the approval and issuance of C of O so that business owners can use their properties as collaterals for credit. On the issue of Business Incubation Center Dr. Alabi charged Government should immediately facilitate its establishment so that serve as one stop center where business advisory services could be obtained. He explained that it can further serve as capacity building for business startups and act as centers for galvanizing credit for business’s in the State. On the challenge if infrastructural deficit he harped on the necessity for supply of electricity as a major incentives for business growth and sustainance. “Linking-up rural communities to the national grid so as to encourage the establishment of cottage businesses.
He however indicated that Government has do much in security but more needed to be done as without security nothing can be achieved. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .