International Air Transport Association Globally, aviation bodies have endorsed the International Air Transport Association (IATA)’s Cargo- XML messaging as the new standard for air cargo industry electronic messaging, as well as an alternative to the old Cargo-IMP. Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format that is both human-readable and machine-readable.
However, the IATA’s Cargo-XML messaging has been emerged as a preferred standard for the electronic communication between airlines and other air cargo stakeholders such as shippers, freight forwarders, ground-handling agents and regulators, as well as customs and security agencies. This new standard is based on multimodal and cross-border messaging and aimed at facilitating cargo business processes, fulfilling customs requirements for Advanced Cargo Information (ACI) filing, complying with security regulations like Electronic Consignment Security Declaration (e-CSD).Before now, aviation industry’s call on Cargo Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) was to freeze Cargo-IMP messages by end of 2014, and encourage use of Cargo-XML messages. Cargo-IMP messages can still be used in the industry said IATA, but has stopped enhancing the standard, as the last edition of Cargo-IMP manual (34th edition) was published at the end of 2014.Therefore, the new upgrades will only be conducted in the equivalent Cargo-XML Messages, which IATA will only maintain the Cargo-XML manual and toolkit. Meanwhile, IATA’s Cargo-XML Toolkit has provided the Cargo-XML standard to the air cargo industry. This toolkit can also be used by businesses in developing open and flexible XML applications for automating electronic transactions or messages. The purpose was to ensure uniformity, mutual understanding, accuracy and economy in electronic data exchanges.Agencies such as the Cargo Committee, Cargo Services and Cargo Agency Conferences have accepted these new Cargo-XML standard messages.IATA has also announced that its Cargo-XML messaging standard will be utilized by the United States’ Customs and Border Protection Agency (US-CBP) to collect advance cross-border data on US export shipments. The new data format, it noted will make electronic communication between the US-CBP’s Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) system, airlines and other air cargo stakeholders simpler and more efficient. In addition, IATA stated that it would facilitate growth in trade; ensure cargo security, and foster participation in global commerce through advance electronic data submission for air cargo shipments. The Senior Vice President for Airport, Passenger, Cargo and Security, IATA, Nick Careen said: “Airlines, freight-forwarders, shippers and border agencies share the common goals of simplifying processes, enhancing efficiency and maximizing safety and security. “The key to achieving this is industry collaboration and standardization on a global scale,” “Having support for Cargo-XML from the US-CBP, one of the world’s largest federal law enforcement agencies, will positively contribute towards the industry achieving its objective – the global adoption of a standard air cargo messaging system”, he added. However, the US-CBP’s utilization of the new standards, developed from international regulations, is due to begin within the next few months. The US-CBP has revealed that it is working to reduce the considerable number of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) message formats currently supported to process international import, export cargo and cargo release information. However, IATA is assisting in this effort by permitting the US-CBP to publish to the minimal data file specifications for the IATA Cargo-XML messages, it said.According to association, each year millions of tonnes of air cargo pass through US airports, from medicines and crucial electronic components, to the latest consumer products. The US CBP has been tasked with ensuring that these goods are safe, present no security issues, are compliant with trade laws, and reach the customer on time.By adopting a common messaging standard – IATA’s Cargo XML – for all air cargo shipments, the industry can be confident that the information being provided to the US-CBP is technically correct. The association noted that the new messaging standard would also make it easier for US-CBP agents to identify freight, which contravenes US legislation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .