PHOTO: en.wikipedia.org In order to improve the skill of Nigerian Air Force (NAF) , the Airforce Institute of Technology, (AFIT) has acquired a Live Aircraft to instil confidence in aspiring aircraft technicians, just as Institute matriculates 172 military and civilian students. The Commandant of AFIT, ‎Air Commodore Musiliu Soladoye, disclosed this while speaking to Journalists yesterday, during the second matriculation ceremony of the institution. ‎Highlighting the feet of the Institute, the Commandant said that the institution embarked on a skills and training gap analysis and discovered the need for AFIT to own its personal aircraft. According to the commandant, “we have taken bold steps, one of the steps is that we think that it is necessary to have a ‘Live Aircraft’ within the institute. Before now we could go to our sister unit within the Base but it is different when you have your own.” “So what we did is to revamp all the laboratories and workshops, we also got a ‘Live Aircraft’ and then re-equipped our library.” He argued that as a foremost institution of Aerospace engineering in Nigeria, AFIT decided to ‎extend its tranning services and capacity to the civil population so that they will also be able to contribute to the civil aviation.
‎Commodore Soladoye, therefore cautioned both the military and civilian students to refrain from any acts of of violence, cultism, examination malpractice and other vices calculated to disrupt the work of the institution or bring its image to disrepute. ‎Meanwhile,in his address, Professor Emmanuel Ezugwu, provost of the institution, explained that the mandate of the institution is to conduct research and offer certificate, National Diploma (ND), Higher National Diploma (HND), Graduate and post Graduate programmes in various aerospace, aeronautical and allied disciplines. “In fulfilment of this mandate, students from various parts of the country as well as all around the West Africa sub Region seek opportunity to study in this noble institution”. “One hundred and Seventy two (172) students matriculating today would be joining this category of privil‎eged students to undertake programmes in aerospace, aeronautical and Allied programmes.”
‎”The 172 students comprise sixteen (16) females and one hundred and forty six (146) males. Among the 172, 135 of them were given admission into School of Air Engineering while 37 were admitted into the school of ground and management studies”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .