Graduate Internship Scheme The Graduate Internship Scheme (GIS) of the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF) has organized a three-day training workshop for 4,700 graduate Interns all over the country in the area of career development and entrepreneurship skills. At one of the centres coordinated by Supreme Management Training and Consultancy Services Limited, the Project Director of GIS Mr. Dennis Chukwu who was represented by Mr. Najeem Aremu (Assistant director M&E) in his opening remarks commended the innovativeness, self-reliance, entrepreneurship spirit and tenacity of the Nigerian youths. This he said has shown over time that no amount of pressure, threats and inducement can derail the resolve of the Nigerian Youth for change. He equally applauded the zeal and patriotism shown by partner organisations and businesses which have agreed with the GIS to host graduates for 12 months. According to the project director, “the GIS since its inception had demonstrated high prospects for job creation and social protection of our youth. The Scheme presents an opportunity for graduate interns to gain vital experience and employment in organizations where they worked, in other organisations or self-employment. In view of its prospect for skills building and job creation, the scheme has developed special programs for non-oil sector. GIS has entered into special partnerships with governmental and non-governmental organisations to have graduates trained, mentored and supported in areas such as; non-oil export trade, ICT, agriculture, community health, construction, financial inclusion, amongst others.So far, 41,161 graduates have benefitted from the scheme, with 68% males, 31% females and 1% vulnerable. Over 35,000 have exited the scheme, with thousands of them having secured jobs. Many have secured credit facilities and grants (including YouWiN! Grant) to expand businesses they set up using GIS stipends and many have set up cooperative associations, some of which have transformed into SMEs. Rather than seeking for work, many interns are now becoming employers. According to Dr. (Mrs.) Olubisi Fasuyi, the Deputy Chief Consultant of Supreme Management Training and Consultancy Services, at the end of the training, each of the interns developed an action plan that will guide the next few years of their lives. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .