 Soludo  The 2005 banking consolidation in Nigeria under Prof. Charles Soludo-led Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), had ended with a fierce competition among the 25 consolidated brands. For some, the struggle just began and it was about mega status and dominance, while for others, it was for greater share of the clientele, especially those that their banks were either acquired or merged. In the quest for whichever, some scripts, both unethical and bereft of professionalism were played against each other. In the financial world, it is called de-marketing. It is a calculated attempt to smear a competing corporate brand either directly or indirectly. This could take the form of sponsorship of reports that are not wholly facts or interpretation of developments to suit ones target of portraying the brand in the bad light. The end of it all is to cause disaffection and dis-popularity, and by extension divert patronage to self or others.  One is that it is distressed, but according to the 2015 financial statement of Heritage Bank released in April, it recorded gross earnings of N24.2 billion and posted a profit after tax of N1.1 billion. The deposit base was N312 billion, while it gave N175 billion as loans during the year. CBN appointed the bank as partner in March this year for the pilot phase of a N3 billion Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme. Just this July, a reputable regional trade institution- African Export-Import Bank offered Heritage Bank $150 million lifeline and no institution of that caliber would extend such facility to a dying bank.
 
From the political angle, the bank said it has been labeled as “Saraki bank” with respect to the embattled Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki. Yet, even at inception in 2013, Saraki’s family has less than 10 percent in Heritage Bank and with ownership dilution, especially since the acquisition of former Enterprise Bank Limited, the stake has pared due to additional capital from new investors. The former chairman of Skye Bank, Tunde Ayeni, has also been rumored as a majority shareholder and that he borrowed so much money from the bank, as a result of which the CBN will soon ‘take over’ the bank as it did Skye Bank.
 
An industry source that pleaded anonymity said that $2.3 billion NNPC dollar saga with banks, also exposed the industry to ridicule by the way it was handled. The course said that while 15 banks were involved, only nine were exposed and that gave de-marketers boost to target those mentioned.
 
“The CBN itself has been helping the course of the de-marketers, especially the way it handled the issue of the NNPC funds in the care of the banks,” the source said.
A source from Heritage Bank said that the cause of the de-marketing assault on Heritage Bank is its success into the “Tier II” category of banks in the country. From entry into the industry in 2013, from the ashes of the defunct Societe Generale Bank (SGBN), defying pessimism about its viability and ability to compete in a fiercely competitive industry, it began verification exercise and payment of about N21 billion to depositors of the defunct SGBN. A feat considered impossible by most industry watchers.  “The sin of the bank included innovative deployment of technology to render banking services in unprecedented style as reflected by its ‘Experience Centers’. Heritage Bank has also succeeded in carving a niche as an ‘SME Friendly bank’ due to its success in promoting and supporting micro, small and medium (MSMEs) businesses, a space largely neglected by the existing banks,” the source said.
 
From loss of jobs, leading to social issues; loss of revenue to government accruable from personal income tax and company income tax; to confidence crisis against the banking sector, the collapse of any bank is not good for the economy. Therefore, healthy competition, not de-marketing, is the way forward. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .