Eudora Kelley To live fully, we must learn to use things and love people and not love things and use people” – John Lowell If you live for having it all, what you have is never enough – Vicki Robin. The master said “ if your conduct is determined solely by considerations of profit you will arouse great resentment” – Confucius Are these things really better than the things I already have? Or am I just trained to be dissatisfied with what I have now? – Chuck Palahniuk We know it has been measured in many experiments that children with strong impulse control grow to be better adjusted, more dependable, achieve higher grades in school and college and have more success in their careers than others. Success depends on the ability to delay gratification, which is precisely what a consumer culture undermines. At every stage, emphasis is on instant gratification of instinct. – Jonathan Sacks Competition is not only the basis of protection to the consumer, but is the incentive to progress. – Herbert Hoover.
Our DNA is as a consumer company for that individual customer who’s voting thumbs up or thumbs down, that’s who we think about and we think that our job is to take responsibility for the complete user experience, and if it in not up to par, it’s simply our fault, plain and simple – Steve
Jobs. The model of getting the consumer to come to you is old and the new model in how you can get to the consumer on their terms in ways they want to engage in; how people are choosing to interface with content is very different. You have got to marry different platforms – Mindy Grossman.
Many people want the government to protect the consumer. A much more urgent problem is to protect the consumer from government – Milton Friedman When you cut human beings down to size we are really quite simple creatures. Food, shelter, warmth, light and heat, and you build it up from there until you finally go Gucci shoes or whatever it is consumers desire these desires are ultimately about gratification. – Bruce Dickinson. Your most unhappy customers are your greatest source of learning – Bill Gates Your customer doesn’t care how much you know until they know how much you care – Damon Richards Kind words may be short and easy to speak, but their echoes are truly endless – Mother Teresa. Customers don’t expect you to be perfect but they expect you to fix things when they go wrong – Donald Porter. You are serving a customer not a life sentence; learn how to enjoy your work – Laurie McIntosh. You customer’s perception is your reality – Kate Zabriskie Loyal customers, they don’t just come back, they don’t simply recommend you, they insist that their friends do business with you – Chip Bell Know what your customers want most and what your company does best. Focus on where those two meet – Kevin Stirtz Make your products easier to buy than your competition or you will find your customers buying from them not you – Mark Cuban Customers are the most important visitor on our premises, they are not dependent on us, we are dependent on them. They are not an interruption in our work. They are the purpose of it. They are not outsiders in our business. They are part of it; we are not doing them a favour by serving them. They are doing us a favour by giving us an opportunity to do so – Mahatma Gandhi We see our customers as invited guests to a party, and we are the hosts, it’s our Job every day to make every important aspect of the customer experience a little bit better – Jeff Bezos. For us our most important stakeholder is not our stockholders it is our customers. We are in business to serve the needs and desires of our core customer base – John Mackey. Here is a simple but powerful rule, always give people more than what they expect to get – Nelson Boswell.
Statistics suggest than when customers complain business owners and managers ought to get excited about it. The complaining customer represents a huge opportunity for our business – Zig Ziegler. He profits most who serves best – Arther F. Sheldon. The purpose of a business is to create a customer who creates customers – Shiva Singh. Whether you are big or small, you cannot give good customer service if your employees don’t feel good about coming to work – Martin Oliver. Get closer than ever to your customers. So close that you tell them what they need before they realize it themselves – Steve Jobs In giving rights to others which belong to them, we give rights to ourselves and to our country – JFK When the government violates the people’s rights, insurrection is, for the people, the most sacred of the rights and the most indispensable of duties. – – Marquis De Lafayette Our personal choices have ecological, social, and spiritual consequences. It is time to re-examine some of our deeply held notions that undermine our lifestyles – David Suzuki. Customers through their devices are leaving vast footprints of customer data for marketers to leverage – Srividya Sridharan. The doorstep to the temple of wisdom is knowledge of our own ignorance – Benjamin Franklin. Tobacco companies kill their best customers – The fresh quotes. Awareness without action is worthless – Phil McGraw. Every time you spend your money, you are casting a vote for the kind of world you want – Anna Dappe. A satisfied customer is the best strategy of all – Micheal Le Boeuf. A brand is nothing but an expression of the customer’s loyalty and trust – Phil Dusenberry. Social media trends are coming headlong into a positive collision with customer values. This represents an opportunity for marketers with
integrity to connect with the customers based on trust using empathy and giving their customers something real they can believe in – John Gerzewa. You always pass failure on the way to success – Mickey Rooney. Money dignifies what is frivolous if unpaid for – Virginia Woolf. Five keys to safer food, keep clean, separate raw and cooked food, cook food thoroughly, keep food at safe temperatures, use safe water and raw materials – WHO. Don’t be ashamed of your story it will inspire others – Anonymous. Your brand is the single most important investment you can make in your business – Steve Forbes. I am a great believer in luck and I find the harder I work, the more I have of if – Thomas Jefferson. You must dress for the theater of life everyday – Lynn Dell. The biggest mistake by human beings: listening half, understanding quarter, telling double. – Unknown Worrying is like a rocking chair, it gives you something to do but doesn’t get you anywhere – Anonymous. Public opinion is a compound of folly, weakness, prejudice, wrong feeling, right feeling, obstinacy, and newspaper paragraphs – Robert Peel Enjoy the little things for one day, you may look back and realize they were the big things. – Unknown Peace does not mean to be in place where there is no noise, trouble or handwork. It means to be in the midst of those things and still be calm in your heart – Unknown. No one can make you feel inferior without your consent – Unknown. We should all know that diversity makes for a rich tapestry and we must understand that all the threads of the tapestry are equal in value no matter what their color- Maga Angelou. The first and most important person you must believe in is yourself – Tori Sorenson. Difficult times in life are like washing machines; they twist us, spin us and knock us around but in the end, we come out cleaner, brighter and better than before – Anonymous. Contentment does not mean that I desire nothing, but rather it’s the simple decision to be happy with what I have – Paulo Rollo. The key to greener planet is in our hands- Unknown A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty- Sir Winston Churchill. If your dreams don’t scare you, then they are not big enough – Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. Money is like gasoline during a road trip, you don’t want to run out of gas on your trip, but you are not doing a tour of gas stations – Tim O’Reilly. Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing about – Benjamin Franklin. Success is dependent on effort – Sophocles. Peace cannot be kept by force it can only be achieved by understanding – Albert Einstein. When everything seems to be going against you, remember that the airplane takes off against the wind, not with it – Inspiration Boost. Com Distance can be measured, love cannot, love will therefore always, always overcome distance. If you don’t like where you then change it, you are not a tree – Unknown. Twitter: consumarttv
Facebook: consumart
Blog: consumart.blogspot
Tel: 0803 854 9252 (sms only) To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .