Nigerdock Nigerdock, a member of Jagal Energy, is a leading indigenous Nigerian energy services company and offshore supply base with diverse capabilities that supports complex oil and gas projects during all stages of an asset lifecycle. Strategically based at Snake Island Integrated Free Zone, the range of services on offer to prospective clients create unparalleled synergy for the delivery of a comprehensive support base, co-located in one state-of-the-art complex, creating a high-value project and operations base and leveraging significant cost efficiencies According to Joy Okebalama, the Group Corporate Affairs Director, Jagal Energy, Nigerdock “has remained at the forefront of Nigerian Content Development achieving a remarkable number of first’s in-country for an Indigenous Company. A staunch advocate of this bold initiative, Nigerdock delivers in every area, particularly, in value addition, skilled job creation, equipment acquisition, training and infrastructural development, and has proudly come to be recognised as the “Champion of Nigerian Content Development”. In her submission, “Nigerdock has imbedded NCD values as a way of working, key aspects of which are:
Fabrication and Engineering services, Supply Base and Logistics services are carried out in-country.
Project Management and Procurement teams are established in-country. The use of Nigerian suppliers for materials/services is pursued to the maximum extent possible compatible with other drivers of each Project. Training and development of our Nigerian personnel in our own Academy, through a competency based process to obtain a transportable / international certification is a continuous drive. Investment in and development of our facility and capabilities are a continuous drive. We utilize professional services provided by local organisations in support of our projects. The company’s core business streams include Project delivery, Support base services, Offshore fabrication, Ship Repair, Marine Services and Industrial training. Nigerdock has registered multiple firsts and milestone projects with a stellar safety record of over 12million man-hours without Lost Time Injury. Our recently concluded work on the OFON 2 project was a clear demonstration of what the right enabling environment (as provided by the Nigerian Content Policy) can do when implemented successfully. It also demonstrated Nigerdock’s ability to deliver multiple, large-scale projects, safely, to international quality standards. Nigerdock’s achievement with respect to the OFON Phase 2 Project is of particular historical significance as it was the first ever integrated multi-discipline EPC project undertaken in full by an indigenous Nigerian company. Nigerdock is proud to have been entrusted with the opportunity to deliver this landmark project, entrenching our credentials as the Champion of Nigerian Content Development. Our Nigerian Content Development accomplishments which are also a contribution to economic success of Nigeria include;
Training of over 6,000 personnel in our Nigerdock Development Academy; delivered over 28,000 individual training programmes in a range of skills including Project Management, Quality, Occupational Health and Safety, Welding, Fitting, Painting and Coating, Machining, Lifting, Rigging and Scaffolding. Creation of over 5,000 direct jobs with support of over 100,000 families and local communities in indirect jobs
Completion and delivery of landmark projects on schedule and top-notch quality. At Nigerdock today, we can speak proudly of massive investments in infrastructure, equipment and people development to the tune of over US $500 million. Through more than a decade of investments, training and capacity building, Nigerdock is now one of the largest integrated support base in Africa and is able to leverage its world-class facilities, ISO accredited management systems and highly trained workforce to deliver major projects for its clients and the industry as a whole. Nigerdock is proud to be leading and making Nigerian Content a reality and has been an inspiration to many others to follow suit. We stand today as proof that indigenous companies can deliver on even more complex projects once given the opportunity.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .