Mantrac Nigeria, Service Operations Manager, Ahmed Ragab; recipients, Abiakun Samuel, Olorunlama Adebowale and Shodeinde Seun; Mantrac Nigeria, Managing Director, Edmund Martin-Lawson; and Technical Training Manager, Lateef Adenle, at the presentation of certificates and Cat kits to three of the successful candidates of Cat on-line technicians for Africa, by Mantrac Nigeria, recently. Caterpillar has introduced Technicians for Africa Project, an e-learning website for engineering graduates who aspire to become technicians in Nigeria and other African countries. The website is leveraging Caterpillar’s exiting state of the art e-learning solutions and makes them available for individuals that has the ambition to develop a career as a heavy equipment technician. The initiative, according to the firm, would help bridged the gap that exists between human labour and required skills. The firm in a statement informed that in Nigeria, three of the candidates who successfully completed the Caterpillar e-learning modules were recently honoured and given their certificates and Caterpillar kits by Mantrac Nigeria Ltd in Lagos. The presentation ceremony was hosted by Mantrac Nigeria, Managing Director, Edmund Martin-Lawson, supported by the Company’s Service Operation Manager, Ahmed Ragab, Technical Training Manager, Lateef Adenle and Territory Marketing Co-ordinator, Mrs. Olamide Alliu. Martin –Lawson, while congratulating the participants for being part of the pilot – phase of the Caterpillar’s corporate social responsibility initiative, described it as “giving back to society for the beneficiaries to upgrade their skills and foundation knowledge of Cat products and their operations”. He noted that two other candidates who successfully participated in the scheme in Port Harcourt would also be honoured. Also, Ragab recalled that access to the basic Caterpillar Technician curriculum was free. He noted that those who registered for the curriculum had the opportunity to upgrade their knowledge and upon successful completion of the curriculum, were given their certificates of completion to support their chances of getting jobs. The free, e-learning curriculum according to Adenle, contained 18 modules of easy-to-understand, technical insights into safety and basic fundamental systems like electrical, hydraulics and power train. He noted that Caterpillar was recognizing the technicians by giving them certificates of completion, declaring that the first five persons who completed the modules were equipped with Caterpillar special tools to aid their work in future, assuring that their experiences would be shared on Caterpillar’s website. Earlier, One of the participants, Adebowale, an engineering graduate from Lagos State University (LASU) thanked Mantrac and Caterpillar for the opportunity, saying that was exactly what he needed to upgrade his skill; he craved for more of such opportunity to qualify as Caterpillar – certified engineer in future. Mantrac Nigeria Limited remains the sole authorized dealer for Caterpillar products and services in Nigeria. It supplies and supports machines for a wide and varied application in infrastructural, agricultural and mining development sectors and a complete range of Forklift Trucks for material handling. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .