Customs The Nigeria Customs service, Kirikiri Lighter Terminal Command, Apapa has partnered Nigerian Army to train 65 of its personnel on enforcement of security and weapon handling. According to Customs Area Controller (CAC), lighter terminal command,  Benjamin Aber, the officers are in the 8 battalion brigade at the instance of  Comptroller General of the service, Col Hameed Ali (rtd). The one-month programme designed to keep the selected officers alert to their duties, was inaugurated at the 9th Brigade Headquarters, Ikeja.The  officers were handed over  to the Commander of the Brigade, Brigadier General A.B. Biu, represented by Colnel Ibikunle Ajose. Aber said: “Such partnership is necessary as a result of the prevailing security challenges in the country. It is in line with the constitutional provision, which mandates the Nigeria Army to extend military aid to civil authorities and sister security agencies”. He added:“The training is geared toward improving the proficiency of the officers on weapon handling, drill, armoury management and physical fitness”. The Administrative Officer for training, Captain Stephen Aworinde, said the personnel would be divided into seven groups of eight trainees for effective coverage. He urged the trainees to brace for a full-blown military drilling that would bring out the best in them.Aber, who represented the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs, urged the personnel to make the best use of the opportunity, adding that  the command created since 1983 with no enforcement unit will after the one month training be the best in the history of NCS. He said: “You should count yourself lucky to start the CGC’s reform-pilot scheme. Your success at this training will open a whole lot of good opportunities that will enable you climb the ladder. “Officers’ promotion and posting will be based on the outcome of the training. After the training, KLT will be the best enforcement unit in the history of Customs Service.”, said Aber To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .