Suntory Suntory Beverage & Food Nigeria has set its footprint in the Nigerian food and beverage market with the globally popular beverage brands, Lucozade and Ribena. This development follows the recent completion of the divestment of the drinks bottling and distribution business between GSK Consumer Nigeria Plc and Japanese global beverage company, Suntory Beverage & Food. Speaking at a press conference held in Lagos to officially announce the Company’s new acquisition, Managing Director, Suntory Beverage & Food Nigeria, Chinedum Okereke, described Suntory’s investment in Nigeria as a development that will yield many positive results. He said: “This is a clear demonstration of Suntory’s confidence in the Nigerian economy. The company relies on the strong connection between the Nigerian consumers and its Lucozade and Ribena brands and is especially confident of the nation’s immense potential for economic growth and the impressive productivity level of its people. “Our conviction in the Nigerian market is responsible for the company’s decision to invest in the country and contribute to human resource empowerment to run the business as a wholly Nigerian company,” Okereke said. According to the Suntory boss, “As a company, our desire is to consistently provide some of the country’s best quality drinks through well researched market insight, expertise and dedication and to also deliver high quality innovative products. “Lucozade and Ribena have enjoyed impressive patronage over the years, so with a promise of continuous improvement and providing better value to our consumers, we are convinced of an improved and more rewarding relationship. Innovation, research and development will play a big part in the foundation of our operations in Nigeria” he said. “With Suntory’s global credentials and successes, Suntory Beverage & Food Nigeria will gain a solid platform into the Nigerian soft drinks industry for its iconic Lucozade and Ribena brands. Commenting further on Suntory Food & Beverage Nigeria’s entry, Okereke explained that the development is also an expression of the company’s trust in Nigeria as a nation. He added, “Suntory Beverage & Food Nigeria is a wholly Nigerian Company both in its operations and its people, we are glad to take off with a dedicated and committed team of Nigerians that will be consistently challenged to create bigger and better brand ideas for our loyal consumers.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .