Olusegun Kafaru The 8th Chairman of Lagos Area Committee (LAC) of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB), Olusegun Kafaru, has reaffirmed the commitment of the Committee to continuous Brokers’ personal transformation and strategic networking for sustainable development. Speaking during his investiture ceremony as the 8th Chairman of the Lagos Area Committee of the Council, Kafaru noted that one of the cardinal thrust of his tenure in office would be to undertake a scientific research into the needs of his members and devise tailor made approaches. According to him, the Brokers of today must be skillful; technically sound and posses strong leadership skills and poise that could make them stand at par with their contemporaries in other dynamic professions, locally and internationally. “This would definitely necessitate continuous self-transformational trainings and orientation on a continuous basis under my tenure.“I am quite aware of the daunting challenges confronting us as a profession, but our unflinching commitment through promotion of continuous brokers’ personal transformation, strategic professional networking and collaboration, as well as aggressive and strategic membership drive would keep our Council’s story line in positive perspective. “We live in an ever changing world where inter industry collaboration is needed for desired progress. We shall reach out with hands of fellowship to other reputable professional bodies for effective collaboration and exchange of information, ideas and strategies to enhance a collaborative growth that will strengthen our practice. Kafaru said that the Committee under his leadership would pursue value added programmes and explore avenues for increase business opportunities that can be opened up to members of the brokering profession through consistent education and information about happenings in the insurance world. On the aggressive and strategic membership drive, Kafaru noted that even though Lagos Area Committee has the reputation of having the largest number of insurance brokers as members, he would not relent in seeing that the membership increases in number. Kafaru is the Managing Director of Quicklink Insurance Brokers Limited, which started operation in 2005. Having served in different capacities in the Lagos Area Committee as publicity secretary, financial secretary and vice chairman, he has horned the required experience as competence to occupy the seat of the Committee chairman. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .