 Engineer Saleh Dunoma, Managing Director, Federal Airport Authourity of Nigeria  In a related development, the Federal Government has appointed two new Directors for the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN).The newly appointed directors are Nike Aboderin, who was appointed Director of Finance & Accounts (DFA), and Sadiku Abdulkadir Rafindadi, appointed as Director of Commercial & Business Development (DCB). Dunoma takes the baton of ACI-Africa leadership from Pascal Komla of Togo as the first Nigerian to preside over the 62 member body operating 250 airports in 47 countries in Africa. ACI World is a global body that defends the interest of airports and fosters cooperation and exchange of ideas amongst its members. Its five geographical regions include – Africa, Asia –Pacific, Europe, Latin America –Caribbean and North America. Dunoma has had a distinguished career in the aviation sector that spans over a period of three decades. He joined FAAN in 1980 as a fresh graduate of Engineering and has risen through the ranks to the position of Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the authority. Aboderin is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (FCIB). She holds an M.Sc degree in Banking and Finance of the University of Lagos. Her over 23 years experience in the financial services industry exposed her to both public and private exploits at different institutions including multinationals. Rafindadi is a 1985 graduate of Economics of the University of Pittsburgh. He also holds an MBA in Finance of Clark Atlanta University, USA. He attended Kaduna Polytechnic, where he obtained Certificates in Management Studies. Rafindadi is a seasoned amiable manager who started his career as a young officer and rose to the pinnacle through diligence and commitment. Until his current appointment, he has worked in several management capacities in different institutions, including, Phoenix Investment Services and British Petroleum. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .